inian representative to the United
Nations Riad Mansour joins me now from
the UN headquarters in New York many
thanks for joining the program what is
uh your reaction to the events of the
last few hours the US veto at the
UNC it's very regrettable that the
United States now after almost 145 days
of the continuing of this uh uh crime
against our people in the Gaza Strip uh
described you know by you know those who
went to the icj as a genocidal you know
war against the Palestinian people by
the occupying power and not to yet agree
uh through a resolution in the security
Council to call for uh an immediate
ceasefire Call It Whatever humanitarian
describe it as you wish but immediate
ceasefire as requested by the Secretary
General of the UN and almost all
humanitarian agencies of the United
Nations and massive number of countries
in the general assembly and almost
everyone in the security Council with
the exception of the United States of
America so it is regrettable it is the
wrong message to be sent by the security
Council to Israel and we will continue
knocking on the door of the security
Council the general assembly all
components of the United Nations
including I myself I was before the icj
uh yesterday in which I pleaded the case
of the Palestinian people through the
tremendous amount of pain that you know
to be a Palestinian today uh to convey
it to all the judges in the icj in a
Humane in an emotional and hopefully in
an in effective way so that the security
the SG icj to also add their voice
through the provisional measures that
amounts to calling for a ceasefire for
Israel to stop its action and its crime
so that the six provisional measures
that the icj requested to be able to be
implemented and Mr Mansour what did you
make of the explanation given by Linda
Thomas Greenfield the the UN Ambassador
uh when she explained why the US had
used their veto uh she said that the
current resolution the Algerian
resolution uh would put sensitive
negotiations in
Jeopardy that is not true because two of
those who are involved in this sensitive
negotiation the representative of Qatar
and Egypt indicated that that is not so
ceasefire will help the negotiation to
move forward swiftly and you know to
accomplish the objective of the exchange
of prisoners hostages and therefore it
is not what uh uh what was claimed and
also let me add if the idea that they
are now introducing a draft resolution
to a call for a long uh ceasefire long
lasting ceasefire or a longlasting pause
who is stopping the United States if it
can uh convince Israel to uh Implement
that in order to help the current you
know underway negotiation from
implementing that nobody would be
objecting nobody will be unhappy all of
us we will welcome any action that will
Stop The Killing and save lives of the
Palestinian people um so the US have
proposed their own draft
resolution
what what is going to happen with that
are members uh like yourself uh going to
be examining that further is that
something that you're going to
consider my understanding that the the
normal mechanism in the security Council
any member can
introduce uh draft resolutions they
engage in consultations and amendments
and changes and if they reach an
agreement and then they can proceeded to
uh vote on that draft resolution they
can also uh introduce it
to excuse
me to be put to a vote even if they
don't agree
provided that the American side can
Master enough number of countries to
cross the threshold without any of the
permanent members to
castavo excuse me
okay I'll let you go uh thank you so
much uh for joining us we will see we we
will you're you're very welcome thank
you you so much the Palestinian
ambassador to the United Nations Riyad
Mansour speaking to us there from the UN
headquarters in New
York